# D24359 reassembly and annotation

Data and scripts used to assemble and annotate S. Enteritidis strain D24359

## Processing

Sequencing data for S. Enteritidis strain D24359 has been [published previously](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/ERR1143555). Following steps were done to assembly and annotate the genome: 

  - Reads were downloaded and quality-checked using FastQC v0.11.6. Deposited reads are already adapter- and quality-trimmed. 
  - Short reads were assembled using Unicycler v0.4.5 in short-read mode. The resulting assembly had 668 contigs and N50 of 10,609.
  - Resulting assembly was polished with Ragout v2.0 with 4 reference-quality Enteritidis genomes (A1636:  GCF_015241115.1, CP255:  GCF_015240995.1, D7795:  GCF_015240855.1, and P125109:  GCA_015240635.1) used as a reference. This resulted in a much more contiguous assembly (2 contings, N50 4,705,460) with 200 kb (~5%) of the assembly masked. 
  - Following this, the polished assembly was annotated using Prokka v1.12 against a custom Salmonella protein database that contained 234,913 unique salmonella proteins annotated using RefSeq Identical Protein Groups. The produced annotation contained 4,448 putative protein-coding genes. The predicted proteins were used as a reference during the mass spectrometry analysis.

## Data available

  - Reference S. Enteritidis genomes and _Salmonella_ protein collection used for annotation; 
  - Assemblies generated by Unicycler (D24359.unicycler.fa) and Ragout (D24359.ragout.fa); 
  - Full Prokka output folder (D24359.prokka.tar.gz).  

## Publication

[Modulation of Salmonella virulence by a novel SPI-2 injectisome effector that interacts with the dystrophin-associated protein complex (bioRxiv, 2023)](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.12.07.570645v1.abstract) 
